"Victor!"

Her voice shattered the cathedral silence, going the full four hundred
and fifty foot perimeter of the fourteen foot wide floor that encircled
the case of the _Brain_. The echo rebounded from the maze of ladders
and catwalks that went up and up until they were lost to view where the
fifteen foot thick outer wall began its upward slope to form the giant
dome.

The silence returned; as motionless as the needles on the instrument
panels resting on their zero pegs, unactivated; as enduring in essence
as the atom proof concrete dome built to last--as long as the Earth
itself.

Then--a sound answered. A faint sound. Footsteps. Movement appeared
through the grillwork of steel catwalks above. Trousered legs. A hand
sliding along a railing of chrome pipe. More rapid steps as the man
descended a steep stair well. Sharper as the man reached the marble
floor.

Dead video camera eyes let his passage go unregistered. Sensitive
quartz crystals inside glistening microphone shells vibrated to the
sound of his footsteps, his soft breathing, sending feeble currents
along wires--to dead amplifying circuits.

"What is it, Ethel?" Dr. Victor Glassman said to his wife.

"Don't you realize it's almost an hour past your lunch time?" she
chided. "Why do you come in here anyway? The Brain was completed six
months ago. It won't run away--and it won't come to life until someone
finds the proper chemical for the nerve fluid to make it work. My
goodness. Eight hundred and fifty million dollars sitting idle in here.
It gives me gooseflesh. Now you come and eat your lunch so I can
get the dishes out of the way. I'm going to be busy the rest of the
afternoon getting ready for the crowd--or did you forget that your ten
scientists are invited to dinner this evening?"

"Of course not, Ethel," he said, putting his arm around her waist. He
pulled her around so they were side by side, looking upward into the
maze of catwalks, seeing the marble panels of the wall that served as a
covering for the huge man-made brain. "_You_ know why I come in here,"
he said. "I like the feel. The sleeping giant. Not sleeping, really.
Just not born yet. Not living yet. Someday soon that will change. The
first non-human...."

"I understand, Victor," Ethel said softly. "It scares me. I know it
will be just like a human mind--same principles of thought--even if
it will be housed in so vast a brain. But how much do we know of the
capabilities of the _human_ brain? I'm afraid."

Dr. Glassman's eyes crinkled goodnaturedly. He tightened his arm around
her waist.

"I'll protect you, Ethel," he said.

She looked up at the giant structure that dwarfed them to
insignificance. "Against that?" she snorted. "What with? A lance and
prancing nag of leather and bones like Don Quixote of old?" She
slipped her arm around his shoulders, her expression softening. "But I
know what you mean. Only ... it's...."

"And I know what you mean, too. Sometimes even I'm afraid of it.
But once we activate it, it will take years for it to build up a
self-integrated mind even equal to a child's. And we'll both be long
dead before its intelligence starts climbing above that of man. You
know, I'm hungry."

Together, arm in arm, they departed, closing the door. And once again
the echoes died away, leaving only the silence.

And the Brain.

       *       *       *       *       *

"How about being quiet for a minute so I won't get these mixed
up?" Earl Frye said, a mask of tolerant good nature concealing his
irritation. "By the way, what's wrong with p. n. 9? Bottleneck?"

Irene Conner clapped her hand over her mouth and spoke from between her
fingers. "Go ahead and pour," she mumbled. "I'll keep quiet for five
minutes."

"Okay," Earl said, unaffected by the twinkle in Irene's clear blue
eyes, the smooth wave of her blonde hair, the quiet unscientific curves
under her lab apron.

He picked the first vial off the tray, read the number on its label and
carefully jotted it down on the lab card. He emptied the vial into
the small opening on top the pump and flicked the toggle switch. With
a smooth whir the pump started. The pressure gauge needle broke from
zero and started upward, finally hovering near the seven ton per square
inch mark. He watched as the fluid he had poured emerged into glass
tubing no thicker than a human hair, and, under the tons per square
inch pressure, stretched into fine fluid columns less than half a dozen
molecules thick.

He repeated the performance with another vial and another pump, and
another, until all ten pumps were working. He went back to the first
one. The fluid had reached the slightly enlarged bubble several inches
up the thread-like glass tubes. He shut off the pump, then went through
the same routine with the other ten.

"That show I want to see is on at the Rialto, Earl," Irene said. "Just
tonight and tomorrow night."

"Good," Earl grunted, starting to recheck the charts. "Let me know if
you liked it. If it's any good I might go see it."

"Why don't you come see it with me?" Irene said.

"Uh," Earl hesitated, not looking up from a chart he was studying.

He was saved by the hall door opening.

"Hi, Basil," he said, taking in Basil Nelson's expression of mild
haste, and the empty test tube in his hand.

Irene frowned in annoyance.

Basil looked at her with a mixture of apology and hopefulness, then
turned to Earl. "Uh, I came in to borrow some base formula," he said.
"Just need a few cc's and didn't want to take the time to get a full
gallon from the storeroom."

"Help yourself," Earl said. He grinned sidewise at Irene. "By the way,
Irene is looking for someone to go with her to see some show that's on
at the Rialto."

"I'll be glad to," Basil said eagerly.

"No thanks," Irene said. "I'm going with my aunt."

"Your aunt?" Basil said. "I didn't know you had an aunt living in
Crestmont." He went to a supply shelf over a wall bench and poured some
base formula from a rubber tube dangling from a large bottle.